docs/index.md, before:

# Course overview

Welcome to the course materials for **Social Media Analysis**!

## Course description

This introductory course provides a comprehensive introduction to social media data analysis.
Throughout the course, you'll learn:

- **Social media data collection**: Work with APIs and other techniques to collect data from various social media platforms.
- **Data format and management**: Manage and process social media data in different formats.
- **Measurements and metrics**: Apply various metrics to measure and analyze social media phenomena.
- **Hypothesis testing and statistical analysis**: Test hypotheses and conduct statistical analyses on social media data.
- **Data visualization**: Create compelling visualizations to communicate insights from social media data.
- **Network analysis**: Analyze social networks and relationships using network analysis methods.

## Basic information

- Homepage: [https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-analysis](https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-analysis)
- GitHub repository: [https://github.com/YangKCLab/social-media-analysis](https://github.com/YangKCLab/social-media-analysis)
- Instructor: [Kaicheng Yang](https://www.kaichengyang.me)
- Prerequisites: This course can be offered to both undergraduate and graduate students. No prior knowledge of social media analysis is required. However, students are expected to have basic knowledge of programming and statistics.

## Course materials

The course combines lectures, research paper reading, and project work to ensure the learning outcomes.

This website contains the learning materials for the course.
All notebooks in this course can be opened in Google Colab for interactive execution. Look for the "Open in Colab" buttons throughout the materials.

Please refer to xx for the list of research papers.
Please refer to xx for the instructions on the project assignments.

## Course offering

Variants of the course may be offered with slightly different names and contents based on the needs.
Here is a list of the variants that have been offered:

- [CS 415/515 Social Media Data Science Pipelines](https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-ds-course) (Fall 2025 @ Binghamton University)

## Special thanks

We would like to thank the following people for their help in developing this course:

- [Jeremy Blackburn](https://mrjimmyblack.com/) provides materials that are instrumental in the development of this course.
- [Yong-Yeol Ahn](https://yyahn.com/about/)'s courses, such as [Data Visualization](https://yyahn.com/dviz-course/) provide valuable insights and inspiration for the design of this website.

Commit message:

Enhance course content and add external link support
Updates course materials with improved organization and clarity:
- Refine homepage description and add proper cross-references
- Expand research papers page with context and categorization
- Add mkdocs-open-in-new-tab plugin for better external link UX
- Include dashboards and discussion links for key papers

docs/index.md, after:

# Course overview

Welcome to the course materials for **Social Media Analysis**!

## Course description

This introductory course provides an introduction to social media data analysis.
Throughout the course, you'll learn:

- **Social media data collection**: Work with APIs and other techniques to collect data from various social media platforms.
- **Data format and management**: Manage and process social media data in different formats.
- **Measurements and metrics**: Apply various metrics to measure and analyze social media phenomena.
- **Hypothesis testing and statistical analysis**: Test hypotheses and conduct statistical analyses on social media data.
- **Data visualization**: Create compelling visualizations to communicate insights from social media data.
- **Network analysis**: Analyze social networks and relationships using network analysis methods.

## Basic information

- Homepage: [https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-analysis](https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-analysis)
- GitHub repository: [https://github.com/YangKCLab/social-media-analysis](https://github.com/YangKCLab/social-media-analysis)
- Instructor: [Kaicheng Yang](https://www.kaichengyang.me)
- Prerequisites: This course can be offered to both undergraduate and graduate students. No prior knowledge of social media analysis is required. However, students are expected to have basic knowledge of programming and statistics.

## Course materials

The course combines lectures, research paper reading, and project work to ensure the learning outcomes.

This website contains the learning materials for the course.
All notebooks in this course can be opened in Google Colab for interactive execution. Look for the "Open in Colab" buttons throughout the materials.

Here is a list of the relevant materials for the course:

- Please refer to [Research Papers](papers.md) for the list of research papers.
- Please refer to [Project Assignment](project.md) for the instructions on the project assignments.
- Please refer to [Resources](resources.md) for the list of useful resources.

## Course offering

Variants of the course may be offered with slightly different names and contents based on the needs.
Here is a list of the variants that have been offered:

- [CS 415/515 Social Media Data Science Pipelines](https://yangkclab.github.io/social-media-ds-course) (Fall 2025 @ Binghamton University)

## Special thanks

We would like to thank the following people for their help in developing this course:

- [Jeremy Blackburn](https://mrjimmyblack.com/) provides materials that are instrumental in the development of this course.
- [Yong-Yeol Ahn](https://yyahn.com/about/)'s courses, such as [Data Visualization](https://yyahn.com/dviz-course/) provide valuable insights and inspiration for the design of this website.
