docs/papers.md, before:

# Research Papers

Research on social media is moving fast, both in terms of the research questions and the methods used to answer them.
The best way to keep up with the latest research is to read the research papers.
Here, we maintain a list of research papers that are relevant to the core topics of this course.

The papers are organized by different topics.

For papers that are published and publicly available, we provide the link to the paper.
For those behind a paywall, we provide the links to the preprint or the author's website.

## Dataset and Collection

- [CoVaxxy: A Collection of English-Language Twitter Posts About COVID-19 Vaccines](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/18122)
- [A Multi-Platform Collection of Social Media Posts about the 2022 U.S. Midterm Elections](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/22205)
- [Raiders of the Lost Kek: 3.5 Years of Augmented 4chan Posts from the Politically Incorrect Board](https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v14i1.7354)
- [Tracking the 2024 US Presidential Election Chatter on TikTok: A Public Multimodal Dataset](https://doi.org/10.1145/3701716.3715291)

## Algorithm
- [How do social media feed algorithms affect attitudes and behavior in an election campaign?](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u0-0CRduarufYKmLE2dvGFUM-iega2IU/view)
- [Algorithmic amplification of politics on Twitter](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2025334119)
- [Neutral bots probe political bias on social media](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-25738-6)
- [Causally estimating the effect of YouTube's recommender system using counterfactual bots](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2313377121)
- [Embedding Democratic Values into Social Media AIs via Societal Objective Functions](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3641002)

## Inauthentic Behaviors

- [Exposure to the Russian Internet Research Agency foreign influence campaign on Twitter in the 2016 US election and its relationship to attitudes and voting behavior](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-35576-9)
- [Bots increase exposure to negative and inflammatory content in online social systems](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1803470115)
- [The Manufacture of Partisan Echo Chambers by Follow Train Abuse on Twitter](https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v16i1.19354)
- [Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior on TikTok: Challenges and Opportunities for Detection in a Video-First Ecosystem](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.10867)

## Ethics and Data Access

- [Experimental evidence of massive-scale emotional contagion through social networks](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1320040111)
- [Post-Post-API Age: Studying Digital Platforms in Scant Data Access Times](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.09877)
- [Web Scraping for Research: Legal, Ethical, Institutional, and Scientific Considerations](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.23432)

## Generative AI and Social Media

- [Characterizing AI-Generated Misinformation on Social Media](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.10266)
- [Simulating Social Media Using Large Language Models to Evaluate Alternative News Feed Algorithms](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.05984)

Commit message:

Enhance course content and add external link support
Updates course materials with improved organization and clarity:
- Refine homepage description and add proper cross-references
- Expand research papers page with context and categorization
- Add mkdocs-open-in-new-tab plugin for better external link UX
- Include dashboards and discussion links for key papers

docs/papers.md, after:

# Research Papers

Research on social media is moving fast, both in terms of the research questions and the methods used to answer them.
The best way to keep up with the latest research is to read the research papers.
Here, we maintain a list of research papers that are relevant to the core topics of this course.

The papers are organized by topic.
When this course is offered in person, students are required to read all papers and complete quizzes on them during class.
For self-directed learners, we highly recommend reading all the papers as well.

For papers that are published and publicly available, we provide the links to the papers.
For those behind a paywall, we try to provide the links to the preprints or the authors' websites.

## Dataset and Collection

To learn how to effectively collect and manage social media data, we can examine best practices from researchers in the field.
Below are several exemplary studies:

- [CoVaxxy: A Collection of English-Language Twitter Posts About COVID-19 Vaccines](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/18122) (see the [dashboard](https://osome.iu.edu/tools/covaxxy))
- [A Multi-Platform Collection of Social Media Posts about the 2022 U.S. Midterm Elections](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/ICWSM/article/view/22205) (see the [dashboard](https://osome.iu.edu/tools/midterm22/))
- [Raiders of the Lost Kek: 3.5 Years of Augmented 4chan Posts from the Politically Incorrect Board](https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v14i1.7354)
- [Tracking the 2024 US Presidential Election Chatter on TikTok: A Public Multimodal Dataset](https://doi.org/10.1145/3701716.3715291)

## Algorithms

Algorithms are at the core of modern social media platforms, and understanding how they work and how they affect users is a crucial part of social media analysis.
Here are a few example studies that focus on different platforms and leverage different methods to study these algorithms:

- [How do social media feed algorithms affect attitudes and behavior in an election campaign?](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u0-0CRduarufYKmLE2dvGFUM-iega2IU/view)
- [Algorithmic amplification of politics on Twitter](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2025334119)
- [Neutral bots probe political bias on social media](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-25738-6)
- [Causally estimating the effect of YouTube's recommender system using counterfactual bots](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2313377121)
- [Embedding Democratic Values into Social Media AIs via Societal Objective Functions](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3641002)

## Inauthentic Behaviors

Inauthentic behaviors are a major concern for social media platforms, here are a few example studies that focus on different types of inauthentic behaviors and their potential impact on the users:

- [Exposure to the Russian Internet Research Agency foreign influence campaign on Twitter in the 2016 US election and its relationship to attitudes and voting behavior](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-35576-9)
- [Bots increase exposure to negative and inflammatory content in online social systems](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1803470115)
- [The Manufacture of Partisan Echo Chambers by Follow Train Abuse on Twitter](https://doi.org/10.1609/icwsm.v16i1.19354)
- [Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior on TikTok: Challenges and Opportunities for Detection in a Video-First Ecosystem](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.10867)

## Ethics and Data Access

Conducting social media analysis ethically and responsibly is essential.
At the same time, access to social media data has become increasingly restricted in recent years, forcing researchers to find alternative approaches.
Below are several studies relevant to these challenges:

- [Experimental evidence of massive-scale emotional contagion through social networks](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1320040111) (see the [discussion](https://www.wired.com/2014/06/everything-you-need-to-know-about-facebooks-manipulative-experiment) on this controversial study)
- [Post-Post-API Age: Studying Digital Platforms in Scant Data Access Times](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.09877)
- [Web Scraping for Research: Legal, Ethical, Institutional, and Scientific Considerations](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.23432)

## Generative AI and Social Media

Generative AI is set to transform the online platform landscape.
Here, we list a few studies that focus on the impact of generative AI on social media and social media analysis:

- [Anatomy of an AI-powered malicious social botnet](https://doi.org/10.51685/jqd.2024.icwsm.7)
- [Characterizing AI-Generated Misinformation on Social Media](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.10266)
- [Simulating Social Media Using Large Language Models to Evaluate Alternative News Feed Algorithms](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2310.05984)
