docs/project.md, before:

# Course Project

To apply the knowledge and skills learned in this course, students are expected to complete a project assignment.
Specifically, students will create an end-to-end analysis pipeline and use it to answer questions about real-world events using social media data.

## Project Specifications

The project will include three major components: data collection, exploratory data analysis, and addressing the research questions.
Students are encouraged to draft a research paper to document the whole project.
Additionally, students can create an interactive dashboard to visualize the results of the project and allow other users to explore the data.

### Data Collection

The most fundamental part of the project is to collect the data from social media platforms.
Students can focus on one platform but are encouraged to collect data from multiple platforms and conduct cross-platform analysis.

Students are encouraged to refer to the [Recommended Research Papers](papers.md#dataset-and-collection) to learn about the best practices of data collection.

Before collecting any data, here are some important considerations:

- **Research questions**: Students should have some research questions in mind before collecting any data. This would guide the data collection process and the analysis.
- **Data collection methods**: Based on the research questions and the platforms' specific features, students need to decide on the appropriate data collection methods, such as which API endpoints to use and what parameters to pass to the API. Students also need to determine if sampling is needed and if so how to ensure the representativeness of the sample.
- **Data storage and management**: Students need to decide on the appropriate data storage and management methods, such as how to store the data in a database and how to organize the data.
- **Robustness of the data collection process**: Students need to ensure that the data collection process is robust and can handle errors and edge cases as the data collection process might continue for a long time.
- **Ethics**: Students should be aware of the ethical implications of collecting data from social media platforms and should follow the guidelines set by the platforms. Please refer to the [Recommended Research Papers](papers.md#ethics-and-data-access) for more information.


### Exploratory Data Analysis

Once the data is collected, students should perform exploratory data analysis to understand the data and identify patterns.
This is a crucial step to validate both the data collection process and the data itself, determine whether the collected data can address the research questions, and discover any other interesting patterns.

During this process, students need to clean the data and identify which measurements and metrics can be derived from the data to address the research questions.
If the data is not sufficient to address the research questions, students can either collect more data or refine the research questions.

Here are some key considerations:

- Is the data collection complete? Are there any missing values?
- Are there any outliers or anomalies in the data?
- What is the volume and distribution of the data?
- What are the key characteristics of the data (e.g., temporal patterns, user demographics, content types)?
- How to quantify the metrics of interest?
- What visualizations can help understand the data better?

### Addressing the Research Questions

With the data exploration completed, students should have a good understanding of the data and the patterns in the data.
They can finalize the research questions and address them using the data.

For each research questions, students can come with a hypothesis and then test it using the metrics generated from the data.

Finally, students can document the findings and the insights from the data analysis in a research paper.

### Interactive Dashboard

In addition to the research paper, students can create an interactive dashboard and make it publicly available for others to explore the data.
The dashboard can be a powerful tool to communicate the findings and the insights from the data analysis to others.

Here are a few examples of interactive dashboards based on social media data:

- [CoVaxxy](https://osome.iu.edu/tools/covaxxy): A dashboard that visualizes the relationships between the COVID-19 vaccines and the social media data.
- [DomainDemo](https://domaindemoexplorer.streamlit.app): A dashboard that visualizes the audience demographics of different web domains based on social media data.

## Example Project Ideas

With the knowledge and skills learned in this course, students can develop their own project ideas.
Here are some sample topics as inspiration:

- Are discussions about certain celebrities more toxic on some platforms than others?
- How do discussions on different topics vary across platforms?
- How does the general sentiment regarding a brand or product vary across different platforms?
- What types of content (text, images, videos) generate the most engagement on different platforms?
- What are the differences in user interaction patterns (replies, shares, likes) between platforms?
- How does the timing of posts affect their reach and engagement across different platforms?
- How do influencers' communication stratGgies differ across platforms?

Commit message:

Add interactive dashboard resources and cross-references
- Add new Interactive Dashboards section to resources page
- Include popular frameworks: Streamlit, Bokeh, Plotly Express, and Altair
- Link project documentation to dashboard resources for student reference

docs/project.md, after:

# Course Project

To apply the knowledge and skills learned in this course, students are expected to complete a project assignment.
Specifically, students will create an end-to-end analysis pipeline and use it to answer questions about real-world events using social media data.

## Project Specifications

The project will include three major components: data collection, exploratory data analysis, and addressing the research questions.
Students are encouraged to draft a research paper to document the whole project.
Additionally, students can create an interactive dashboard to visualize the results of the project and allow other users to explore the data.

### Data Collection

The most fundamental part of the project is to collect the data from social media platforms.
Students can focus on one platform but are encouraged to collect data from multiple platforms and conduct cross-platform analysis.

Students are encouraged to refer to the [Recommended Research Papers](papers.md#dataset-and-collection) to learn about the best practices of data collection.

Before collecting any data, here are some important considerations:

- **Research questions**: Students should have some research questions in mind before collecting any data. This would guide the data collection process and the analysis.
- **Data collection methods**: Based on the research questions and the platforms' specific features, students need to decide on the appropriate data collection methods, such as which API endpoints to use and what parameters to pass to the API. Students also need to determine if sampling is needed and if so how to ensure the representativeness of the sample.
- **Data storage and management**: Students need to decide on the appropriate data storage and management methods, such as how to store the data in a database and how to organize the data.
- **Robustness of the data collection process**: Students need to ensure that the data collection process is robust and can handle errors and edge cases as the data collection process might continue for a long time.
- **Ethics**: Students should be aware of the ethical implications of collecting data from social media platforms and should follow the guidelines set by the platforms. Please refer to the [Recommended Research Papers](papers.md#ethics-and-data-access) for more information.


### Exploratory Data Analysis

Once the data is collected, students should perform exploratory data analysis to understand the data and identify patterns.
This is a crucial step to validate both the data collection process and the data itself, determine whether the collected data can address the research questions, and discover any other interesting patterns.

During this process, students need to clean the data and identify which measurements and metrics can be derived from the data to address the research questions.
If the data is not sufficient to address the research questions, students can either collect more data or refine the research questions.

Here are some key considerations:

- Is the data collection complete? Are there any missing values?
- Are there any outliers or anomalies in the data?
- What is the volume and distribution of the data?
- What are the key characteristics of the data (e.g., temporal patterns, user demographics, content types)?
- How to quantify the metrics of interest?
- What visualizations can help understand the data better?

### Addressing the Research Questions

With the data exploration completed, students should have a good understanding of the data and the patterns in the data.
They can finalize the research questions and address them using the data.

For each research questions, students can come with a hypothesis and then test it using the metrics generated from the data.

Finally, students can document the findings and the insights from the data analysis in a research paper.

### Interactive Dashboard

In addition to the research paper, students can create an interactive dashboard and make it publicly available for others to explore the data.
The dashboard can be a powerful tool to communicate the findings and the insights from the data analysis to others.

Here are a few examples of interactive dashboards based on social media data:

- [CoVaxxy](https://osome.iu.edu/tools/covaxxy): A dashboard that visualizes the relationships between the COVID-19 vaccines and the social media data.
- [DomainDemo](https://domaindemoexplorer.streamlit.app): A dashboard that visualizes the audience demographics of different web domains based on social media data.

You can refer to the [Resources](resources.md#interactive-dashboards) page for pointers on frameworks and libraries for creating interactive dashboards.

## Example Project Ideas

With the knowledge and skills learned in this course, students can develop their own project ideas.
Here are some sample topics as inspiration:

- Are discussions about certain celebrities more toxic on some platforms than others?
- How do discussions on different topics vary across platforms?
- How does the general sentiment regarding a brand or product vary across different platforms?
- What types of content (text, images, videos) generate the most engagement on different platforms?
- What are the differences in user interaction patterns (replies, shares, likes) between platforms?
- How does the timing of posts affect their reach and engagement across different platforms?
- How do influencers' communication stratGgies differ across platforms?
